Outbreak Investigation of Salmonella: Peanut Butter (May 2022) | FDA Skip to main content Skip to FDA Search Skip to in this section menu Skip to footer links An official website of the United States government Here’s how you know The .gov means it’s official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Search Menu Search FDA Submit search Featured Report a Product Problem Contact FDA FDA Guidance Documents Recalls, Market Withdrawals and Safety Alerts Press Announcements Warning Letters Advisory Committees En Español Products Food Drugs Medical Devices Radiation-Emitting Products Vaccines, Blood, and Biologics Animal and Veterinary Cosmetics Tobacco Products Topics About FDA Combination Products Regulatory Information Safety Emergency Preparedness International Programs News and Events Training and Continuing Education Inspections and Compliance Science and Research Information For Consumers Patients Industry Health Professionals Federal, State and Local Officials Home Food Recalls, Outbreaks & Emergencies Outbreaks of Foodborne Illness Outbreak Investigation of Salmonella: Peanut Butter (May 2022) Outbreaks of Foodborne Illness In this section Outbreaks of Foodborne Illness Post-Outbreak Response and Prevention Strategies to Enhance Food Safety (Updated January 17, 2025) Strengthening Food Safety through Root Cause Analysis Investigations of Foodborne Illness Outbreaks Public Health Advisories from Investigations of Foodborne Illness Outbreaks Food Safety Tips for Consumers & Retailers During an Outbreak of Foodborne Illness Food Safety Resources for Produce Shippers and Carriers During a Foodborne Illness Outbreak Outbreak Investigation Reports About the CORE Network Foodborne Illness Outbreak Executive Incident Summary Abstracts Foodborne Outbreak Overview of Data (FOOD) Reports CORE Annual Reports CORE Publications Foodborne Outbreak Response Improvement Plan Foodborne Pathogens Outbreak Investigation of Salmonella: Peanut Butter (May 2022) Outbreak over; FDA issues a warning letter. Outbreaks of Foodborne Illness Post-Outbreak Response and Prevention Strategies Strengthening Food Safety through Root Cause Analysis Investigations of Foodborne Illness Outbreaks Public Health Advisories from Investigations of Foodborne Illness Outbreaks Food Safety Tips for Consumers & Retailers During an Outbreak of Foodborne Illness Food Safety Resources for Produce Shippers and Carriers During a Foodborne Illness Outbreak Outbreak Investigation Reports About the CORE Network Executive Incident Summary Abstracts CORE FOOD Reports CORE Annual Reports CORE Publications Foodborne Outbreak Response Improvement Plan Foodborne Pathogens The FDA, along with CDC and state and local partners, investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Senftenberg infections linked to certain Jif brand peanut butter products produced at the J.M. Smucker Company facility in Lexington, Kentucky. J.M. Smucker Company voluntarily recalled certain Jif brand peanut butter products that have the lot codes described below. Photo examples are included below. On January 24, 2023, FDA issued a Warning Letter to J.M. Smucker, LLC, the maker of Jif brand peanut butter, following a joint inspection with the Kentucky Cabinet for Health and Family Service Food Safety Branch (CHFS0FSB), as part of the multistate foodborne outbreak investigation. Recommendation The affected recalled products should no longer be available for sale. However, the product has a long shelf life and could still be in consumers’ homes. Consumers, restaurants, and retailers should not eat, sell, or serve any recalled Jif brand peanut butter, including recalled products that contain the recalled Jif peanut butter. Consumers should also avoid feeding recalled peanut butter to pets or other animals, including wild birds. For Consumers Follow these steps: Check if you have Jif peanut butter in your home. Locate the lot code on the back of the jar, under the Best If Used By Date (the lot code may be next to the Best If Used By Date for cups or squeeze pouches). In the lot code, if the first four digits are between 1274 and 2140, and if the next three numbers after that are '425', this product has been recalled and you should not consume this product. An example is below. If you are unsure what to do with your recalled product, you can call or email J.M. Smucker Company for more information: The J.M. Smucker Co. Hotline: 800-828-9980 Website: jif.com/contact-us FDA recommends that if you have used the recalled Jif brand peanut butter that have lot code numbers 1274425 through 2140425 and the first seven digits end with 425, you should wash and sanitize surfaces and utensils that could have touched the peanut butter. If you or someone in your household ate this peanut butter and have symptoms of salmonellosis, please contact your healthcare provider. For Retailers, Re-packers, and Manufacturers In addition to the steps above, FDA recommends referring to the firm's recall press for the UPC codes and other retailer information. Do not sell or serve recalled peanut butter or products containing recalled peanut butter. Product Images Case Count Map Provided by CDC Case Counts Total Illnesses: 21 Hospitalizations: 4 Deaths: 0 Last Illness Onset: May 23, 2022 States with Cases: AR (1), AZ (1), FL (1), GA (2), IL (1), IN (1), MA (1), MI (1), MO (2), NC (2), NY (1), OH (1), SC (1), TX (2), VA (1), WA (1), WV (1) Product Distribution: Nationwide and International (see below) Useful Links What is Salmonella Recall Announcement 2022 Recalls of Products Associated with Peanut Butter from J.M. Smucker Company Food Safety Tips for Consumers & Retailers During an Outbreak Who to Contact FDA Warning Letter International Distribution for Recalled Products The recall impacts markets outside of the U.S. Customer information provided by J.M. Smucker on May 23, 2022 shows that it was distributed to the following countries and locations: Canada, Dominican Republic, Singapore, Malaysia, Taiwan, Korea, Thailand, Honduras, Spain, Japan. For additional information, international officials and customers can visit the company’s recall page . Previous Updates June 22, 2022 J.M. Smucker Company has voluntarily recalled certain Jif brand peanut butter products that have the lot codes described below. Photo examples are included below. FDA has posted a list of additional recalls being conducted by companies that have used the recalled Jif peanut butter as an ingredient in the manufacturing of a new product (e.g., chocolate products) or in repackaging the product (e.g., snack cups). This list will be updated as the agency receives notification of new recalls. In addition, USDA has issued a recall on ready-to-eat Super Asian Chicken Salads that were made with recalled Jif peanut butter and sold at an Amazon Go retail location in Washington state. As of May 25, 2022, CDC reports that of the 10 people interviewed, 10 (100%) reported eating peanut butter prior to becoming ill. Nine people reported brand information, and all nine (100%) reported eating different varieties of Jif brand peanut butter. FDA’s investigation is ongoing and more information will be provided as it becomes available. May 26, 2022 The FDA, along with CDC and state and local partners, are investigating a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Senftenberg infections linked to certain Jif brand peanut butter products produced at the J.M. Smucker Company facility in Lexington, Kentucky. J.M. Smucker Company has voluntarily recalled certain Jif brand peanut butter products that have the lot codes described below. Photo examples are included below. FDA has posted a list of additional recalls being conducted by companies that have used the recalled Jif peanut butter as an ingredient in the manufacturing of a new product (e.g., chocolate products) or in repackaging the product (e.g., snack cups). This list will be updated as the agency receives notification of new recalls. As of May 25, 2022, CDC reports that of the 10 people interviewed, 10 (100%) reported eating peanut butter prior to becoming ill. Nine people reported brand information, and all nine (100%) reported eating different varieties of Jif brand peanut butter. FDA’s investigation is ongoing and more information will be provided as it becomes available. May 20, 2022 The FDA, along with CDC and state and local partners, are investigating a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Senftenberg infections linked to certain Jif brand peanut butter products produced at the J.M. Smucker Company facility in Lexington, Kentucky. CDC’s review of epidemiological information indicates that five out of five people reported consuming peanut butter and four of the five people specifically reported consuming different varieties of Jif brand peanut butter prior to becoming ill. FDA conducted Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS) analysis on an environmental sample collected at the Lexington, KY, J.M. Smucker Company facility in 2010. The analysis shows that this 2010 environmental sample matches the strain causing illnesses in this current outbreak. Epidemiologic evidence indicates that Jif brand peanut butter produced in the J.M. Smucker Company facility located in Lexington, KY, is the likely cause of illnesses in this outbreak. Who to Contact Consumers who have symptoms should contact their health care provider to report their symptoms and receive care. To report a complaint or adverse event (illness or serious allergic reaction), visit Industry and Consumer Assistance . Follow us on X (formerly Twitter) Content current as of: 01/25/2024 Regulated Product(s) Food & Beverages Topic(s) Outbreak Feedback Subscribe to Updates: Outbreak Investigations & Safety Alerts Get regular FDA email updates delivered on this topic to your inbox. Enter your email address to subscribe: FDA Archive About FDA Accessibility Visitor Information Website Policies / Privacy No FEAR Act Vulnerability Disclosure Policy FOIA HHS.gov USA.gov Contact FDA Follow FDA on Facebook Follow FDA on X Follow FDA on Instagram Follow FDA on LinkedIn View FDA videos on YouTube Subscribe to FDA RSS feeds Contact Number 1-888-INFO-FDA (1-888-463-6332) Back to Top
